1️⃣ Prepare Disk Space for EndeavourOS

1. Open Disk Management in Windows:

Press Win + S → type Disk Management → open Create and format hard disk partitions.



2. Identify the partition to shrink (usually your main Windows partition).


3. Right-click the partition → select Shrink Volume.

Enter 80000 MB (≈80 GB) as the size to shrink.



4. After shrinking, a new unallocated space appears on the disk.


5. Create a new partition in the unallocated space:

Follow the wizard → leave defaults for filesystem type (will be handled during Linux installation).

[Add screenshot: unallocated space and new partition]





---

2️⃣ Prepare Bootable USB with Ventoy

1. Download Ventoy for Windows:

[Insert Ventoy Windows zip link here]



2. Extract the downloaded zip file and open the Ventoy application.


3. Configure Ventoy:

Go to Options → Partition Scheme → select GPT.



4. Click Install to create a bootable USB.

⚠️ This will erase all data on the USB drive; ensure no important files are on it.



5. Copy the EndeavourOS ISO to the USB drive:

[Insert EndeavourOS ISO link here]

No special tools are needed; copying the ISO directly makes it bootable.

[Add screenshot: ISO copied on USB]





---

3️⃣ Boot into EndeavourOS Installer

1. Reboot your computer and boot from the USB drive.


2. In the Ventoy menu, select the EndeavourOS ISO → choose Offline Installer.


3. Proceed through the installation wizard:

Language selection → Keyboard layout → Region settings.



4. Partition selection:

Select Manual Partitioning (or “Replace a Partition”).

Choose the 80 GB partition you created earlier.

Format it as ext4 (default).

[Add screenshot: partition selection]



5. Configure user information:

Computer name

Username

Password

Root password (if requested)



6. Begin the installation process.

[Add screenshot: installation progress]





---

4️⃣ Reboot and Update System

1. After installation completes, reboot the laptop.


2. Log into your new EndeavourOS system.


3. Open the terminal (Ctrl + Alt + T) and update all packages:



sudo pacman -Syu

4. This ensures your system is fully up-to-date.

[Add screenshot: terminal showing update]





---

✅ Notes

Always back up important data before modifying partitions.

GPT partition scheme is recommended for UEFI systems.

Screenshots are highly encouraged to illustrate each step for clarity.

This installation sets a solid foundation for subsequent customization, theming, and performance tuning of EndeavourOS.
